Course Case Study
Moreno has assigned you the first question to answer: How do annual members and casual riders use Cyclistic bikes differently?

You will produce a report with the following deliverables:
1. A clear statement of the business task
2. A description of all data sources used
3. Documentation of any cleaning or manipulation of data
4. A summary of your analysis
5. Supporting visualizations and key findings
6. Your top three recommendations based on your analysis

Case Study Roadmap - Ask
Guiding questions 
● What is the problem you are trying to solve? Answer: How do annual members and casual riders use Cyclistic bikes differently?
● How can your insights drive business decisions? Answer: When we understand how annual members and casual riders differ, then we can make marketing campaign that targets type of rider company wants to attract.
Key tasks
1. Identify the business task Answer: Understand the difference between casual and annual riders.
2. Consider key stakeholders Answer: Cyclic executive team, Lily Moreno (director of marketing).
Deliverable
A clear statement of the business task Answer:  Understand the difference between casual and annual riders in order to make the right marketing campaign.

Case Study Roadmap - Prepare
Guiding questions
● Where is your data located? Answer: Revived data trough course
● How is the data organized? Answer: It’s organized in Excel table, with 13 columns and over 400k rows
● Are there issues with bias or credibility in this data? Does your data ROCCC? Answer: I don’t think it’s bias and there is no issue with credibility because its first hand data. Reliable:yes, original:yes, comprehensive: maybe, current: its not current, first quarter of 2020, cited:no.
● How are you addressing licensing, privacy, security, and accessibility? Answer: The data has been made available by Motivate International Inc. under this license.
● How did you verify the data’s integrity? Answer: It’s legit with few minor input errors
● How does it help you answer your question? Answer: It has relevant data about trips that members took
● Are there any problems with the data? Answer: Yes, there are some input and type errors
Key tasks
1. Download data and store it appropriately. Answer: Done
2. Identify how it’s organized. Answer: It’s organized in a way that one row of data is a single trip made by one member, columns show member id, when and where he took the bike and left it.
3. Sort and filter the data. Answer: Done
4. Determine the credibility of the data. Answer: It’s credible
Deliverable
A description of all data sources used  Answer: Excel table of trips taken by members of Cyclic company in first quarter of 2020.

Case Study Roadmap - Process
Guiding questions
● What tools are you choosing and why? Answer: Sort and filter, change cell type, fix bad entry cells
● Have you ensured your data’s integrity? Answer: Yes, made 2 copies
● What steps have you taken to ensure that your data is clean? Answer: Sort and filter, removed lock from id column and fixed bad entrys, used len function,  used on top filter to show anomalies, removed blanks
● How can you verify that your data is clean and ready to analyze? Answer: In the end i checked all columns and verified that it is clean
● Have you documented your cleaning process so you can review and share those results? Answer: Documented in the of this roadmap
Key tasks
1. Check the data for errors. Answer: done
2. Choose your tools. Answer: sort, filter, len function, blank cell search
3. Transform the data so you can work with it effectively. Answer: edited bad cells, removed blank cell
4. Document the cleaning process. Answer: Documented in the of this roadmap
Deliverable
Documentation of any cleaning or manipulation of data Answer: id_ride-len function, removed bad entry with e+number in the end, removed lock, removed commas and plus sings, removed  157EAA4C4A3C8D36 because end station is blank, new column named ride_id_len which counts number of characters in cell and put a filter to put on top from smallest to largest number. Then i added zeros at the end of ids to have 16 characters like the majority. Start time and end time was entered wrong, so i just changed them, i noticed that in the ride_lenght column where error was showing.

Case Study Roadmap - Analyze
Guiding questions
● How should you organize your data to perform analysis on it? Answer: Organize it in Excel so the row is showing one individual trip
● Has your data been properly formatted? Answer: data was not properly formatted for some cells
● What surprises did you discover in the data? Answer: a lot of faulty entries 
● What trends or relationships did you find in the data? Answer: Casual riders take longer trips, but member riders take more trips. Also casual riders take more trips on weekends and member riders during workdays.
● How will these insights help answer your business questions? Answer: It will help with planning marketing strategy
Key tasks
1. Aggregate your data so it’s useful and accessible. Answer: done
2. Organize and format your data. Answer: done
3. Perform calculations. Answer: done
4. Identify trends and relationships. Answer: done
Deliverable
A summary of your analysis Answer: Casual riders take longer trips, but member riders take more trips. Also casual riders take more trips on weekends and member riders during workdays.

Case Study Roadmap - Share
Guiding questions
● Were you able to answer the question of how annual members and casual riders use Cyclistic bikes differently? Answer: Yes
● What story does your data tell? Answer: How casual and annual members use bikes differently
● How do your findings relate to your original question? Answer: Casual riders take longer trips, but member riders take more trips. Also casual riders take more trips on weekends and member riders during workdays.
● Who is your audience? What is the best way to communicate with them? Answer: Cyclic executive team, Lily Moreno (director of marketing). Best to communicate findings with PowerPoint presentations
● Can data visualization help you share your findings? Answer: Of course, better to understand correlation with graphs 
● Is your presentation accessible to your audience? Answer: Didn’t made presentation

Key tasks
1. Determine the best way to share your findings. Answer: Trough PP presentation
2. Create effective data visualizations. Answer: done, will try in tablou also
3. Present your findings. Answer: will do to my fiance
4. Ensure your work is accessible. Answer: will post on Kaggle and Github
Deliverable
Supporting visualizations and key findings Answer: done

Case Study Roadmap - Act
Guiding questions
● What is your final conclusion based on your analysis? Answer: Casual riders take longer trips, but member riders take more trips. Also casual riders take more trips on weekends and member riders during workdays.
● How could your team and business apply your insights? Answer: hard to say without pricing model
● What next steps would you or your stakeholders take based on your findings? Answer: start planning new marketing strategy
● Is there additional data you could use to expand on your findings? Answer: Yes, but i don’t have access to it, like pricing model, cash flow, assets and so on
Key tasks
1. Create your portfolio. Answer: done
2. Add your case study. Answer: done
3. Practice presenting your case study to a friend or family member. Answer: done
Deliverable
Your top three recommendations based on your analysis Answer: focus on making more annual members, introduce loyalty program, higher pricing on weekends and lower on weekdays.

